---
published: true
---
## A New Post

HEIF (High Efficiency Image Format) and HEIC (High Efficiency Image Coding)

HEIF is a container format designed for efficient compression, making it ideal for storing and transferring images with less data. 
HEIC, on the other hand, is essentially a variation of HEIF, specifically tailored for images encoded using the HEVC (High Efficiency Video Coding) codec.
While HEIF supports multiple codecs, HEIC is more narrowly focused, providing a balance of quality and efficiency—particularly for Apple ecosystems.

HEIC is unusable in many contexts due to licensing. AVIF works in the browser. But both will eventually be replaced by the superior JPEG-XL.
Also Samsung smartphones take pictures in HEIC.
  https://www.reddit.com/r/AV1/comments/wz45mw/anybody_has_heic_vs_avif_comparisons/
  
AVIF is the AV1 Image File Format developed by the Alliance for Open Media in 2019 to replace WebP and compete with HEIC. It is an open and royalty-free image format which has a better compression efficiency and detail preservation that WebP, JPEG and PNG image formats.
  https://www.winxdvd.com/ios-android-mobile/avif-vs-heic.htm
  
---

## What is HEIF image extensions and do I need it?

You downloaded or copied photos to a Windows PC, but:

-   the thumbnails cannot be seen;
-   the photo cannot be opened;
-   the extension next to the image name on the PC is .HEIF or .HEIC;
-   Photos viewer says that HEIF and HEVC extensions are required to display the file.

If you **want to view these pictures on the Windows PC and see the thumbnails**, you have to **install a HEIF image extension**.

**What is a HEIF image extension?** An extension is like an app or a driver – you install a HEIF extension, and it teaches your PC to read and open HEIF files. But you don’t have to launch the extension every time you want to see a HEIF photo. The information is already integrated into your system, as if it “extended” the capabilities of your PC.

### Does Windows support HEIF files?

**No, neither Windows 10 nor Windows 11 support HEIF files by default.** If you want to see thumbnails and open HEIF photos, you need to **install HEIF extensions**.

Microsoft offers its own **HEIF image extension**, which is supposed to be free. However, I installed it and it wasn’t enough. For full compatibility, I had to install a HEVC extension as well. The second extension cost me 0.99 USD.
  https://copytrans.studio/support/heif-image-extension/#what-is-extension